So far in the course,
we've talked about how agents
can improve their policies or
value functions by planning with
experience generated
from a model.
But what happens
if the agent plans
with experience from
an inaccurate model?
In this video, you
will learn how to
identify ways in which
models can be inaccurate,
explain the effects of planning
with an inaccurate model,
and describe how Dyna implants
successfully with
an incomplete model.
First, let's talk
about what it means
for a model to be inaccurate.
Models are inaccurate when
transitions they store are
different from transitions that
happen in the environment.
At the beginning of learning,
the agent hasn't tried most of
the actions in almost
all of the states.
The transitions associated
with trying those actions
in those states are simply
missing from the model.
We call models of missing
transitions incomplete models.
The model could also be an
accurate if the
environment changes.
Taking an action in a state
could result in
a different next state
and reward than what
the agent observed
before the change.
We say the model is inaccurate
because what actually
happens is different from
what the model says.
So what happens when we plan
with inaccurate models?
The effect of planning
with inaccurate models
depends on how the model
is inaccurate.
In the beginning,
the model is incomplete.
Since the model can't produce
a next step or a reward,
it can't be used for planning.
However, as the agent interacts
with the environment,
the model stores more
and more transitions.
Then, the agent can
perform updates
by simulating transitions
it's seen before.
That means that as long as
the agent has seen
some transitions,
it can plan with the model.
Now let's think
about how changes in
the environment affect planning.
Imagine that the agent
has already visited
every state action pair
and stored its experience
in the model.
Then, the environment changes.
A transition in
the model no longer
reflects the transition
in the environment.
What will happen when
the agent tries to
plan using its inaccurate model?
If the agent tries to perform
a planning update with
one of the incorrect
transitions in the model,
the value function or
policy that the agent
updates might change in
the wrong direction.
Remember that planning
improves the policy
with respect to what
the model thinks will happen,
rather than what will really
happen in the environment.
The model becomes outdated
when the environment changes.
Planning with that model
will likely make
the agent's policy worse with
respect to the environment.
Now that we've gone
over the two main ways
that models can be inaccurate,
let's think about how
agents could plan
successfully with
incomplete models.
We've actually gone
over one such algorithm
already, Dyna queue.
Let's see how Dyna queue does
planning with
an incomplete model.
In the planning step,
we must determine which
state action pairs to
query the model with.
The model only knows
the next state and
reward from state action pairs
it has already visited.
Therefore, Dyna queue can
only do planning updates from
previously visited
state action pairs.
Dyna queue only plans
the transitions it
has already seen.
So, in the first few time
steps of learning,
Dyna queue might do
quite a few planning updates
with the same transition.
However, as Dyna queue visits
more state action pairs
in the environment,
its planning updates
become more evenly
distributed throughout
the state action space.
In this video, we talked about
how models can be inaccurate
if they are either incomplete
or if the environment changes.
Planning with an inaccurate
model improves the policy or
value function with respect to
the model and not
the environment.
Dyna queue can plan with
an incomplete model
by only sampling
state action pairs that
had been previously
visited. See you next time.